# PUBLIC-EMPLOYENTSERVICE-OFFICE-OF-SAN-JUAN-PORTAL-IMPLEMENTING-PREDICTIVE-LEARNING-ANALYTICS

## PROJECT DESCRIPTION
  San Juan was just a small village formerly called Bolbok (Nabulbok). Gradually, the village grew in population as well as in economic activities and soon became a town headed by a gobernadorcillo, or municipal mayor. The Municipality of San Juan, formerly a village of the town of Rosario, was officially recognized as a separate municipality in 1848. Considered the 2nd largest municipality in the Province of Batangas, it has a total land area of 27,340 hectares, predominantly devoted to agriculture. By virtue of Department of Finance Memorandum No. 01-M(35) dated January 31, 2006, it has been reclassified from a second class to a first-class municipality, effective July of 2005. It has 42 barangays under its general supervision, with a total population of 114,068 based on the latest Census of 2020.

  The Public Employment Service Office, or PESO, is a non-fee charging multi-employment service facility or entity established or accredited pursuant to Republic Act No. 8759, otherwise known as the PESO Act of 1999.
A human resource management system (HRMS) is a software application used to store employee information and support various human resource functions, such as benefits, payroll, recruiting, training, etc. This term is often used interchangeably with human resource information systems (HRIS).

  The project will focus on Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 1, "No Poverty" which aims to ensure social protection for the poor and vulnerable, increase access to basic services, and support people harmed by climate-related extreme events and other economic, social, and environmental shocks and disasters. The project seeks to contribute to the achievement of SDG 1 by developing a web-based system that is reliable, efficient, and scalable to support the rising unemployment rate.

  This project will involve a comprehensive review of the literature, case studies, and interviews with experts in the field. The review literature will be based on credible sources such as academic journals, books, and research papers.

  Nowadays, many Filipinos are suffering because of the lack of employment opportunities that may help them support their needs. Unemployment has become a major problem in almost every society. The challenges posed by unemployment are both social and economic in nature. Under normal circumstances, unemployment leads to despondency since a section of society lacks ways of earning a living. This affects not only the economic status of society but also the political and social aspects. It is against this background that a lot of efforts are put in place to address the issue of unemployment. Job creation is one sure way of ensuring that unemployment is under control. This involves concerted efforts to bring about opportunities to work through which income can be generated. However, unemployment is of different types, and a better understanding of the same is crucial in the event of finding a meaningful solution. Furthermore, unemployment is caused by several factors, which are responsible for the whole situation. 

  As a result, the researcher proposed a system that provides services that are stylish, portable, accessible, and simple to use. Because of modern  technology, the researcher has developed a system that may help reduce the unemployment rate. A human resources management system is a suite of software applications used to manage human resources and related processes throughout the employee lifecycle. 

  However, the study will simplify the hiring process and reduce the time and effort taken for screening, shortlisting, and interviewing applicants. Daily active users for job apps -- such as Indeed, LinkedIn, ZipRecruiter and Glassdoor -- have been hitting new monthly highs since March 2022, according to a study by Apptopia.  Because of this high usage, companies need to consider these job boards in their mobile recruitment strategy as more people continue to  search for jobs on their smartphones. People can create accounts, upload their  resumes, and apply to multiple jobs by visiting these sites instead of going to each company's website. Companies can include a link to their website in the posting so people can also see the original posting on the company's website.
